
WordCounterText.exe/.py Guide
Program by Sam Lampe

Setup:
Make sure the ‘WordCounter’ folder is in the
‘C:\’ file directory, or else the program
will not work properly.

To find this, open your file explorer (will
usually look like a yellow folder) and type
in the bar at the top; highlight and delete
everything, and replace it with ‘C:\’
(don’t include the quotes), then press
enter, and the main folder should open.
Either drag the folder ‘WordCounter’ here
or copy-paste it. Make sure not to drag it
into another folder already in the C:\ folder.

How to run:
Navigate to the WordCounter folder in the
C:\ directory. Double click on
WordCounter.exe. A window may quickly pop
up and close, this is normal. Another
window should pop up later with the actual
program.

Prompts in the program will tell you what
to type. Press enter to confirm your
responses.
The first question will need to be the
exact name of the file.
The second question will be how long of
words/phrases you wish to search for.
The last question will be how many of the
most common words/phrases will show up
(100 or so is recommended, but you may
do as many as you’d like).

The computer may need a few seconds to
load all the results, and will show them
in a vertical table, which you should be
able to scroll through. The more results
requested and the longer the phrases
desired the longer it will take.

Document format:
All documents you wish to search should be
in modern Microsoft Word documents (.docx)
format. Current versions of Word will have
it in this format automatically. If they are
in other formats you will need to copy-paste
them into a .docx document or convert it into
one. If you want to make sure Word saves it
as .docx, you can go into the word document,
click ‘File’, then ‘Save As’, then click
underneath the file name where it has the
file type, and make sure it says
‘Microsoft Word (*.docx)’.

Test files:
The full texts of Shakespeare’s Hamlet
and Romeo and Juliet are included to use
as test files to ensure the program is
working properly. The resources are
public domain and can be found at
http://shakespeare.mit.edu/Tragedy/hamlet/full.html 
and http://shakespeare.mit.edu/romeo_juliet/full.html,
respectively.
